## Abstract
This report presents the design and the development of an interactive, futuristic Smart Mirror with artificial intelligence for the ambient home environment as well as for commercial uses in work and public environments. The project collects real world machine data based on user requirements, and this data is displayed to the user. The entire working of the Smart Mirror system is controlled and managed by a Raspberry Pi. The Smart Mirror implemented, is a personalized digital device equipped with peripherals, namely - a microphone, speakers, an LCD monitor covered with a sheet of two-way acrylic mirror, and is powered by a Raspberry Pi. It provides basic common functionalities such as weather of the city, latest updates of news and headlines, and local time corresponding to the location. Using speech processing techniques, the user, therefore, interacts with the Smart Mirror through verbal commands. A Remote Configuration Tool (RCT) is also created to help the user with the working of the Smart Mirror when the user’s voice commands result in false positives and true negatives. The Smart Mirror listens to the user’s commands and performs the corresponding functions.


## PREFACE 
The construction of this project is include in academic curriculum of Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow for accessing the capability of students to utilize their practical knowledge in the practical knowledge in the practical arena.
This report presents the design and the development of an interactive, futuristic Smart Mirror with artificial intelligence for the ambient home environment as well as for commercial uses in work and public environments. The project collects real world machine data based on user requirements, and this data is displayed to the user. The entire working of the Smart Mirror system is controlled and managed by a Raspberry Pi. The Smart Mirror implemented, is a personalized digital device equipped with peripherals, namely - a microphone, speakers, an LCD monitor covered with a sheet of two-way acrylic mirror, and is powered by a Raspberry Pi. It provides basic common functionalities such as weather of the city, latest updates of news and headlines, and local time corresponding to the location. Using speech processing techniques, the user, therefore, interacts with the Smart Mirror through verbal commands. A Remote Configuration Tool (RCT) is also created to help the user with the working of the Smart Mirror when the user’s voice commands result in false positives and true negatives. The Smart Mirror listens to the user’s commands and performs the corresponding functions.
This is no doubt that in spite of our silence efforts; there might be few anomalies in this project.  Yours suggestions and advice are cordially welcomed.

